---
published: true
title: "Announcing the participants of the third cohort for the Learning Collaborative on Vocational Rehabilitation Management"
author:
layout: post
categories:
  - press
---

**TO**: The Council on State Vocational Rehabilitation Agencies, state vocational rehabilitation directors, the Technical Assistance and Continuing Education (TACE) grantees, the Rehabilitation Services Administration, and the general public  

**CC**: The National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research (NIDRR) and grantees  

**FROM**: Research and Technical Assistance Center (RTAC) on VR Program Management at the Institute for Community Inclusion at the University of Massachusetts Boston  

**RE**: Announcing the participants of the third cohort for the Learning Collaborative on Vocational Rehabilitation Management  

**DATE**: June 27, 2014  

The RTAC on VR Program Management is pleased to announce the participants of the 2014-2015 Learning Collaborative on Vocational Rehabilitation Management.  We received requests to participate in the project during the open period from 5/16/2014 to 6/11/2014.  The following eleven state VR agencies were invited to participate:  

###Participating State VR Agency and Project Synopsis

**Delaware Division for the Visually Impaired**:  "Significant expansion" to their business model to improve employment outcomes, increasing their consumer base and expanding service provision. Goal:  Develop new quality assurance measures for annual case reviews, performance management, and community rehabilitation partners that are aligned with both VR and Medicaid federal requirements.  

**Louisiana Rehabilitation Services**:  Improved management of their Supported Employment program. Goal: Develop procedures to effectively monitor and assess all Supported Employment vendors to ensure that consumers are receiving appropriate services.  

**Massachusetts State Commission for the Blind**:  Engage young VR consumers with working professional mentors who are blind in order to maximize career exploration, independent living, and personal and professional development toward their vocational goal(s). Goal: Implement a mentoring program to increase employment outcomes, as well as job satisfaction and retention for consumers.  

**Maryland Division of Rehabilitation Services**:  Monitoring and evaluation of CRPs and establishing a fair payment system that incentivizes desired outcomes. Goal:  Establish a fair payment system applicable to all varieties of CRPs (MHA/DDA licensed, Non MHA/DDA licensed, and CARF accredited) currently under cooperative agreements with Maryland DORS.  

**New York Vocational and Educational Services for Individuals with Disabilities**:  Significant improvement in the areas of Assessment, Eligibility and IPE Development. Goal: Develop a comprehensive system to train and support staff resulting in improved services for consumers.  

**Chickasaw Nation Vocational Rehabilitation Department**:  Improve job development activities through staff training, the Institute for Community Inclusion's (ICI) peer-to-peer exchange and consultation and evaluation from experts in job development. Goal: Increased number of successful employment outcomes of individuals with disabilities who are consumers of CNVRP and OKDRS.

**Oregon Commission for the Blind**:  Advancing the agency management and leadership. Goal:  Develop an agency management strategy that utilizes performance data, targets and outcomes to drive predictable results within the programs of the organization.

**Utah State Office of Rehabilitation**:  Provide leadership with consultation regarding OOS issues and alternatives.  Goal: Produce a decisional framework to inform leadership about the need and appropriateness of an OOS.  

**Virginia Department for the Blind and Vision Impaired**:  Correlate the services of VRCBVI with successful employment outcomes for consumers and optimize utilization of the Center. Goal:  Develop a strategic plan for and effectively evaluate utilization of the Center as a tool for preparing consumers for employment.

**Washington Division of Vocational Rehabilitation**: Improve agency recruitment and workforce development. Goal: Establish an organized recruitment effort to increase the number of qualified, diverse applicants for vacant VRC positions.  

**Washington Department of Services for the Blind**: Engage staff in a structured, guided, and comprehensive strategic planning process. Goal: Develop an effective structure for maintaining, refining and re-engaging in the strategic planning process over time.

<hr />

Each of these eleven VR agencies received a budget of $50,000 to participate in the third cohort of the Learning Collaborative as part of a research effort to develop a management model focused on the areas of human resources, strategic planning, and quality assurance.

For more information, please visit www.explorevr.org or contact Dr. Susan Foley, Research Director, at the Institute for Community Inclusion: <a href="mailto:susan.foley@umb.edu">susan.foley@umb.edu</a>.  
